Release 6.33.0 changelog (#22523)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-google: CHANGELOG.md

## 6.33.0 (Unreleased)

FEATURES:
* **New Data Source:** `google_memcache_instance` ([#22477](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22477))
* **New Resource:** `google_bigtable_logical_view` ([#22499](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22499))
* **New Resource:** `google_bigtable_materialized_view` ([#22475](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22475))
* **New Resource:** `google_compute_region_security_policy_rule` (ga) ([#22443](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22443))
* **New Resource:** `google_compute_region_security_policy` (ga) ([#22443](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22443))
* **New Resource:** `google_os_config_v2_policy_orchestrator_for_folder` ([#22441](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22441))

IMPROVEMENTS:
* beyondcorp: added `upstreams` fields to `google_beyondcorp_application` resource ([#22514](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22514))

> * compute: added fields like `raw_key`, `rsa_encrypted_key`, `kms_key_service_account` to all relevant resources on `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#22503](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22503))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: added fields `raw_key`, `rsa_encrypted_key`, `kms_key_service_account` to resources `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#22503](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22503))
```

Author: list is non-exclusive

* compute: added `disk_id` to `google_compute_region_disk` resource ([#22462](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22462))

> * compute: marked `location` field as required in `google_compute_interconnect` resource ([#22480](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22480))

Reviewer: is this a breaking change? Usually we mark location as computed so it inherits provider level defaults?

Reviewer: i guess not breaking since it optional right now but technically required

* container: added `data_cache_count` to `ephemeral_storage_local_ssd_config` for `google_container_node_pool` ([#22456](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22456))

> * container: added update for `gvnic` to `google_container_node_pool` ([#22421](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22421))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* container: added update support for `gvnic` to `google_container_node_pool` ([#22421](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22421))
```

* dataplex: added `notification_report` field to `google_dataplex_datascan` resource ([#22464](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22464))
* gkehub: added `configmanagement.config_sync.deployment_overrides` field to `google_gke_hub_feature_membership` resource ([#22403](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22403))
* identityplatform: added `response_type` field to `google_identity_platform_oauth_idp_config` ([#22463](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22463))

> * netapp: added `custom_performance_enabled`, `total_throughput_mibps`, and `total_iops` fields to `google_netapp_storage_pool` resource (beta) ([#22487](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22487))

Reviewer: beta only

> * netapp: added `custom_performance_enabled`, `total_throughput_mibps`, and `total_iops` fields to `google_netapp_storage_pool` resource (beta) ([#22487](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22487))

Author: ```suggestion
```

* networkservices: added `metadata` field to `google_networkservices_lbtrafficextension` resource ([#22454](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22454))

> * secretmanager: added `tags` field to `google_secret_manager_secret` to allow setting tags for secrets at creation time ([#22455](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22455))

Reviewer 2: FYI, revert was just done with https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/magic-modules/pull/13786

> * secretmanager: added `tags` field to `google_secret_manager_secret` to allow setting tags for secrets at creation time ([#22455](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22455))

Author: ```suggestion
```

* sql: added output-only field `dns_names` to `google_sql_database_instance` resource ([#22502](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22502))
* storage: added new fields `time_created` and `updated` in `google_storage_bucket` ([#22500](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22500))

> * storagetransfer: added `transfer_spec.aws_s3_data_source.managed_private_network` field to `google_storage_transfer_job` resource ([#22509](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22509))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* storagetransfer: added field `transfer_spec.aws_s3_data_source.managed_private_network` to `google_storage_transfer_job` resource ([#22509](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22509))
```

BUG FIXES:

> * alloydb: stopped diffs when `google_alloydb_instance.network_config` is not specified as the API newly returns a value. Removing the field from config will no longer create a diff and will preserve the current value ([#22504](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22504))

Reviewer: consider rephrasing

* clouddeploy: allowed sending empty block for `rollback` field  in  `google_clouddeploy_automation` resource. ([#22501](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22501))
* compute: fixed an issue preventing `terms.priority` from being set to priority value 0 in `google_compute_router_route_policy` resource ([#22417](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22417))

> * securesourcemanager: increased default timeouts on `google_secure_source_manager_instance` operations to 120m from 60m. Operations could take longer than an hour. ([#22483](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22483))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* securesourcemanager: increased default timeouts on `google_secure_source_manager_instance` operations to 120m from 60m as operations may take longer. ([#22483](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22483))
```

* sql: replaced the Terraform-based default value for `settings.disk_type` in `google_sql_database_instance` with a server-assigned default, allowing for compatibility with machine types that require `HyperDisk_Balanced` ([#22485](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22485))

> * storage: removed extra permission (storage.anywhereCaches.list) required for doing a destroy in `resource_storage_bucket` ([#22442](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22442))

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * workstations: increased default timeouts on `google_workstations_workstation_cluster` operations to 120m from 60m. Operations could take longer than an hour. ([#22482](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22482))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* workstations: increased default timeouts on `google_workstations_workstation_cluster` operations to 120m from 60m as operations may take longer. ([#22482](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22482))
```
